Release Post (#27)
software-mansion/universal-sierra-compiler: release-post.md

# Universal Sierra Compiler

The Software Mansion Team has created a new tool, Universal Sierra Compiler (further abbreviated as USC).

USC is the tool for Sierra compilation - it compiles any ever-existing Sierra version to CASM.

The idea behind USC is simple, yet it might make things easier for some tools.
It bundles all Sierra compilers previously released, and depending on the version contained inside the Sierra JSON, it chooses the right compiler.
Therefore it allows any tool to be independent of Sierra version.

Universal Sierra Compiler might become especially useful for nodes, which have to interact with contracts deployed in different versions of Sierra, but also any other tool that depends on the versioning of Sierra.

## Usage

| Command          | Purpose                               | Input                        | Input as JSON of Cairo struct                              | Output as JSON of Cairo struct |
|------------------|---------------------------------------|------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|-|

> | compile-contract | compile Sierra of a Starknet contract | output of `cairo-compile`    | cairo_lang_starknet_classes::contract_class::ContractClass | cairo_lang_starknet::casm_contract_class::CasmContractClass |

Reviewer: `cairo_lang_starknet_classes::contract_class::ContractClass` 
This is prone to changing so i would think about leaving those specifics out
Listing a tool that outputs the json in desired format is much more useful

Author: Thought it'd be easier to integrate for existing tools

| compile-raw      | compile Sierra of a Cairo program     | output of `starknet-compile` | cairo_lang_sierra::program::Program                        | |
|                  |                                       |                              |                                                            | |

```shell
$ universal-sierra-compiler compile-raw --sierra-path ./path/to/sierra.json

{"assembled_cairo_program": ...}
```

## Installation

Use the provided script to install the latest version of Universal Sierra Compiler:

```shell
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/software-mansion/universal-sierra-compiler/master/scripts/install.sh | sh

...
universal-sierra-compiler (v1.0.0) has been installed successfully.
```

It is also possible to install a specific version of USC by passing, for example:

```shell

> | sh -s v2.0.0-rc0

Reviewer: Somebody will copy this and ask why it's not working

Author: ![image](https://github.com/software-mansion/universal-sierra-compiler/assets/65187002/783f9048-c99a-42b2-9c1f-0bf33eb0b12f)

```

however, since USC aims to be backwards-compatible itself, it should be enough to always use the latest version (e.g. on CI).

> Note that versions of USC that are `release candidate` (rc) will not be fetched when installing the latest version. For that you would need to specify a concrete version.

Reviewer: > For that you would need to specify a concrete version

I think it'd be useful to describe when i'd like to do that (when i want to adjust/test for new sierra)

Author: so the problem i have is that as a tool that uses USC, i'd still have to bump it when i'd want to use a new sierra version from cairo `rc`

i guess it wouldn't make much sense to do a normal release once new sierra comes out in cairo `rc`, since it can change in the next `rc` version

but maybe we could have an option to download the latest rc release? (unless its already possible somehow)

Author: > i guess it wouldn't make much sense to do a normal release once new sierra comes out in cairo rc, since it can change in the next rc version

unless the change is annotated with patch in sierra version? (e.g. `rc0` -> 1.5.0, `rc1` -> 1.5.1)

## When to update USC?

We aim to prioritize creating a new release of USC available on GitHub, as soon as a new Sierra version comes out.

Only then, if you would need to use the newest Sierra, you should update the USC version.

## Why is USC a binary?

> We would like USC to be a as separate of a tool as possible. It should require the users to bump it only when a new Sierra version comes out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We would like USC to be as decoupled from other tools as possible. It should require the users to bump it only when a new Sierra version comes out, without the need to re-integrate it in the software that runs it.
```

> If however, you would still prefer to use USC as a crate, please write a comment below, or [open an issue](https://github.com/software-mansion/universal-sierra-compiler/issues/new) so we can discuss it further.

Reviewer: We do have an issue already for answering this question in the docs

Author: Yeah, but I think it should be in the post itself too
